#summary How to use the Ratings plugin !
<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />
=Plugin Information=

|| *Plugin name* ||Enhance||
|| *Latest release* ||[http://gwtquery-plugins.googlecode.com/svn/mavenrepo/com/googlecode/gwtquery/plugins/enhance-plugin/1.0.4/enhance-plugin-1.0.5.jar 1.0.5]||
|| *Latest release date* ||2012||
|| *Maintainer* ||[http://code.google.com/u/manuel.carrasco.m/ Manolo Carrasco]||
|| *Issues tracking* || [http://code.google.com/p/gwtquery-plugins/issues/list?can=2&q=label%3AEnhance Open issues]||

This plugin is a set of gwt widgets which are used to enhance standar html elements.


== What does it do? ==
The Ratings plugin is a plugin for the [http://code.google.com/p/gwtquery/ GwtQuery] library that creates a non-obstrusive controls based on standard html elements. 

 * Normally it hides the original html element and enhances it to give a better user experience.
 * If you enhance form elements they will work as usual when submiting a form.
 * All widgets in this plugins are available as standard gwt plugins as well.

=Changelog=
==v1.0.4==
 * Upgrade gwt-2.5.1 and gquery 1.3.3
==v1.0.4==
 * Upgrade to gwt-2.4.0
==v1.0.2==
 * Upgrade to gwt-2.2.0 and many fixes
==v1.0.0==
 * Compatibility release for gwt-2.1.1 and gquery-1.0.0
==v1.0.0==
 * First release 
 
=Using the plugin=

==Configuration==

First of all you have to include the library in the classpath of your project. 
 * If you are using `ant` normally it is enough to download the library from the [http://code.google.com/p/gwtquery-plugins/downloads/list downloads page] and put it in the war/WEB-INF/lib folder. 

 * If you use `maven`, you have to add these blocks to your pom.xml
{{{
   <repositories>
        <repository>
         <id>plugins</id>
         <url>http://gwtquery-plugins.googlecode.com/svn/mavenrepo</url>
       </repository>
   </repositories>

   <build>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.googlecode.gwtquery.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>enhance-plugin</artifactId>
            <scope>provided</scope>
            <version>1.0.5</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
   </build>
}}}

Then you need to inherit the plugin in your Module.gwt.xml file:
{{{
  <inherits name='gwtquery.plugins.enhance.Enhance'/>
}}}

And finally, as with all gwtQuery plugins, just call the Ratings plugin like that :
{{{
import static gwtquery.plugins.ratings.client.enhance.Enhance;
...
$("input[name=color]").as(Enhance).colorBox();
$("input[name=number]").as(Enhance).slider(0, 100);
}}}

It enhances the input with the name color with a colorpicker, and the input with name number with a slider bar.

=Samples=

{{{
        $("textarea").as(Enhance).richText();
        $(".color input").as(Enhance).colorBox();
        $(".colorfull input").as(Enhance).colorBox(ColorPickerType.ADVANCED);
        $(".ffamily input").as(Enhance).fontFamilyBox();
        $(".fsize input").as(Enhance).fontSizeBox();
        $(".slider input").as(Enhance).slider(0, 2);
        $(".multiselect select").as(Enhance).multiselect();
}}}

To better understand the plugin, take a look to the example:
  * [http://gwtquery-plugins.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/enhance/demos/Enhance/EnhanceSample.html]